Dan: Hello this is Dan  Alex: Hey, uh, this is Alex  Dan: Hello this is Dan  Alex: Can you hear me?   Dan: Yeah  Alex: You might have spoke (sic) to my friend Francesa about an interview?   Dan: Oh yeah yeah she called the other day right  Alex: Oh awesome, are you free for like a little bit?  (pause)  Dan: Uhh, yeah she said something the other day about being recorded? What’s that about?  Alex: Oh it’s just for personal interest, we’re not sharing the recording with anyone except ourselves  Dan: Alright, but give me a little background of what you’re interested in  Alex: Um well, um, I she might’ve explained to you  Dan: No she didn’t I had to hang up right away so go ahead  Alex: Yeah I apologize so we found a paper about you in Grossinger’s Resort. If I remember correctly it was about employment at Glenmaura Golf Club? Sorry it’s dated from 1992 it from  (pause)  quite a while ago.   Dan: Wait you said Grossinger’s now you’re saying Glanmaura?   Alex: Right right right, we don’t know why that paper’s there either. So um, it’s just a paper. It has all of your information on it- nothing too personal. Enough to find you online. But we were just wondering if we could conduct a short interview.   Dan: About what though? What are you interviewing about?  Alex: Uhhh, just general things like how did you get into golf photography, what is a golf professional etcetera etcetera  Dan: Well, I didn’t get the job so it’s not like- you know what I’m saying?   Alex: Yeah, no, I mean we were wondering about that too. It’s just, we found it interesting.   (pause)  Dan: Is Grossinger’s still around?   Alex: No actually I think it closed down in the early 80s. The golf course is still around but not the resort.   Dan: Uhuh  Alex: Yeah. So we found it interesting- it is about your possible employment at Glenmaura but it’s sitting there laminated in Grossinger’s.   Dan: Uhuh  Alex: Yeah. I could email you the picture if you’d like it. It’s just, it’s just um, yeah.   Dan: Sure. danmckean64@gmail.com  Alex: Ok cool, is that also on your website?  Dan: I don’t have a website  Alex: Oh, really? Did someone set one up for you because there’s one for “Dan McKean golf photographer”  Dan: Oh yeah yeah, see that’s not really, I guess that’s a website. I didn’t really  Alex: Were you not the one who set it up?  Dan: No um- my daughter did that. I’m not very current so  Alex: Oh okay, okay I was just curious. Gotcha.   Dan: Yeah that was years ago.  Alex: Yeah, okay. It still- it looks like a nice website.   Dan: Yeah yeah, I’m a wholesaler so I don’t really sell anything retail so I don’t really need a website.   Alex: Mhm.  Dan: But uh, she set that up for me anyway.   Alex: Oh that was nice. Yeah no, it’s literally the first thing that comes up when you search “Dan McKean golf photographer” it’s the first thing that shows up. So  Dan: Oh that’s good.   Alex: (laughs) Good- search engine  Dan: So what do you do? You’re a freelance writer?  Alex: Um, I’m not a writer. I’m actually going to school for photography. Uh, and my friend Francesca she is a writer mostly.   Dan: Uhuh  Alex: So there was kind of a weird overlap of interests. We don’t really know anything about golf but. I don’t know. It was weird find a record of someone laminated just sitting there. So.  Dan: I see. What got you into Grossinger’s? What made you go there?  Alex: Well we were looking for kind of- interesting abandoned areas and Grossinger’s is a huge- I don’t know- did you ever go to Grossinger’s while it was still open? The resort?
 Dan: Oh I’ve been there. When I was a kid I went there many times. (unintelligible) I had a double eagle on the fourth hole there.  Alex: Wow, so  Dan: (unintelligible) so there’s an island green Par 5 fourth hole  Alex: Did you go to both the resort and the golf course?   Dan: Ah, no I lived too far away so I just drove there to play.   Alex: Mhm yeah the golf course is still open but the resort itself is abandoned.   Dan: I do believe I am the only person ever to have a double eagle in that hole. Ever.   Alex: Really? When we were looking you up online you do have a very impressive- like- golfing history. And this might be a little bit creepy but you were- let’s see  Dan: (intelligible) what?   Alex: Hm?  Dan: What were you saying I had?   Alex: Oh well there was an entry for your high school yearbook and I think you were the number one player for like all of your four years, um, which is like very impressive. An MVP, a medalist, first player to represent the school at the state level.   Dan: Yeah. And even since that writing I even made the hall of fame at my high school 2010.  Alex: Yeah, that’s very impressive.  
Dan: Ehhh, okay yeah?   Alex: (laughs) Well, so we were wondering, so how did you get into golf photography?  Dan: How’d I get into the business at all? Well I went to Penn State Junior college, won the college state championship, and then I was a member at a country club and one of their guys who was an avid golfer (unintelligible) I went down to an interview with (Balgislav?) in New Jersey they just had the PGA championships. So I worked there for 10 years and uh, when I got employed there I took pictures of (?) and what have you and some of the members were very interested in the photos I had on the counter there. They said “these are great” then I decided to blow one up and frame it and it took off from there. So I really had no background in photography but I do have a keen eye for what’s supposed to be in the photo itself. You know?  Alex: Mhm. Right, for like composition and, I saw some of your older work framed and whatnot and it was very nice. You definitely had a good eye for color and composition and whatnot.   Dan: Right, and since then I’ve done about 500 (unintelligible)  Alex: Excuse me 500 what?  Dan: 500 private golf courses that I’ve photographed across the country.   Alex: Oh wow, that’s crazy. And then do you go around and sell them in the frames and the packages and whatnot?  Dan: Yeah, like I said I’m a wholesaler to the golf pro shops. So the golf shop itself is a retail store, so I sell my stuff to them.   Alex: Mhm. Okay. That makes sense.   Dan: And I also do corporate outings. It’s only golf. All I do is golf.   Alex: Mhm, no other photography?   Dan: Nope. Well, I love landscape photography and wildlife photography, but to make money on it  Alex: Right, it’s difficult to make money in that sort of photography.   Dan: A lot of people take a picture of a capybara in a tree, but can they make money on it?   Alex: Right, I totally agree. Well, golf is kind of like a nice intersection of not really wildlife or nature but it is like, you know, you do get a bit of that.   Dan: Yeah exactly  Alex: And then I also see you’re  Dan: I also feel some wildlife photographers like myself, you know I’m a true wildlife photographer where I see a bobcat in the woods or a rattlesnake on the ground, but some of there photographers are in the reserves where the animals are not too leery of them being photographed.   Alex: Mhm, *laugh*  Dan: Big disadvantage when you have to deal with a truly wild animal you know?   Alex: Oh yeah. Either that or get a hugely telescopic lens.  Dan: That’s true, yep.   Alex: Yeah, I totally get that. So since the thing in Grossinger’s was about your employment, so I guess you ended up not getting that job?   Dan: No I didn’t. And we had two children at the time and we decided to have more children and uh, hold on one second.   Alex: Yeah, no worries.   (pause, possibly the sound of people speaking in the background)  Dan: So anyways, we had two children at the time and one of em (unintelligible) I decided I think it was the right decision to move to that part of Pennsylvania. Shahola, the tri-state area. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania.   Alex: Right  Dan: And that way I could travel, when you photograph golf courses you have to travel, get up early in the morning   Alex: I could imagine  Dan: Right, to me that was the Columbus Circle of golf photography. I could drive to Long Island, I could drive to Boston, Rochester, Pittsburg, uh, Maryland, Washington D.C., and of course, New Jersey and Philadelphia. So to me living there was the epicenter, and uh, the reason I got into (?) it was, I always called it when you’re working in the golf business it’s a “half day”, and a half day is twelve hours. (laughs)  Alex: (laughs)   Dan: So, it took a lot of time. You know?   Alex: Uhuh.   Dan: Most kids these days think a half day is four hours.   Alex: Right (chuckle)  Dan: So they just took us to (unintelligible) and it was pretty limited, I had to apply to a couple of jobs, and it was highly recommended, and by the circumstances I didn’t get the job but uh- that was okay and I still have the business to fall back on. So just out of the blue I took a little bit of a gutsy choice, ‘cause when I did that in 1990-  Alex: 1992  Dan: When I did that then, um, there was really nobody that just focused solely on golf course photography. They had other means of making money, you know, they did weddings  Alex: Right  Dan: they did landscapes. So I said to myself “I’m gonna do one thing, and I’m gonna do one thing right” and because I was a golf pro, because I was a PGA member for many years I knew a lot of the current PGA pros so there was a foot-in-the-door type things where I could get access to their clubs and the biggest thing between myself and what I would call a standard photographer is I know the golf game very well. I would not be a detriment out on the golf course like  Alex: Right   Dan: the landscape. If maybe you were to go out there, per se, you wouldn’t know when a golfer was gonna be hitting, whether you’d be in their way  Alex: Uhuh, I’d have absolutely no idea (talking over Dan)  Dan: Things like that. I have a keen sense of when to hold up and not do something that would, what it were to do in that situation is the golfer would then, the member might come up and say “who’s that photographer out there, he ruined my day” and then it falls back on the guy that let me on the course you know?  Alex: (laughs) Right  Dan: So they’re confident in me doing my job and not having any interference   Alex: Right, since you know what’s going on. You’re not gonna set up a tripod right in the middle of the field   Dan: (light chuckle) Anyway, so that’s how that turned out. It pretty much mushroomed from there. I did a lot of major tournaments. I did a lot of US Opens and PGA Championships, and it just evolved into a photography business that grew mostly by word-of-mouth. Like I said, I really don’t have a website, my daughter put that up. But it’s more word-of-mouth than anything so.   Alex: That’s really cool, so you’re still doing golf photography?   Dan: Oh yeah, oh yeah, still doing that. I haven’t changed. It’s been 20, what 92, 25 years, yeah.  Alex: Wow. That’s really interesting. Yeah, I’ve never heard of just a specialized golf photographer.  Dan: Right right. It is still rare, I guess there’s more competition now, like anything with the internet I don’t get too focused on selling that because images of golf courses are almost everywhere if you were to look up any golf course you could probably find any of that. I’m not too focused on challenging any of that. That market I guess.   Alex: Right, like the stock photography market basically.   Dan: I guess, yeah.   Alex: That’s always  Dan: What do you photograph?   Alex: Um, that’s difficult. I mean, we were just talking about how difficult stock photography is to be up against, so a lot of my photography is at night, long exposures, but I do like landscapes, but I try to photograph them in ways that aren’t conventional.   Dan: Uhuh 
Alex: So yeah, I used to a lot of, do you know like long exposure light painting?   Dan: Say again?  Alex: They call it “light painting”, it’s long exposure at night.   Dan: Oh yeah yeah yeah, there was one that they did that made some national news the other day down from Route 97 from Port- are you from the area? Where are you at?   Alex: I’m actually in Scranton right now.   Dan: Scranton, Vermont?  Alex: No, Scranton, Pennsylvania.   Dan: Oh, Scranton. Scranton. I don’t know if you’re familiar with the Hawk’s Nest on Route 97, the real twisty road that goes up form Port Jervis, New York up?   Alex: Uh, I’ve heard of it. I haven't been there though.   Dan: If you look up “Route 97 The Hawk’s Nest”, there’s a guy that did a time-lapse photography of car lights going through the curves. Yeah, that’s Hawk’s Nest was where they shot commercials for Jaguar and I think BMW I believe.   Alex: Oh, that’s very interesting. I’ll have to check it out.  Dan: There’s a lot of people that just go there to go through the curves. It’s a lot of windy, windy roads. So anyway, they did a time-lapse photography of the headlights and it did look pretty neat. I know he got some national recognition on that shot.  Alex: Wow. Good for him, I’ll have to check that out.   Dan: Yeah, the Hawk’s Nest time-lapse photography. It was just this year, so you wont have to go too far back on the internet.   Alex: I’ll have to check that out. Yeah, that’s mostly what I do as far as photography goes. I go to school in New York City, and etcetera etcetera, but yeah.   Dan: Where in New York? Baruch? Uh?  Alex: Cooper Union  Dan: I don’t know that one, no.   Alex: It’s a very small school. But, no, that’s very interesting! So, um, hmm.  Dan: So if I pursued the golf business I bet, I suppose I’d be a head golf coach somewhere but I choose this route. It’s one of those things where you take a turn in the road and you just stay with it.   Alex: Right  Dan: But I’m still in the golf course industry you know what I’m saying?  Alex: Right, as a golf photographer.  Dan: Right. And I kept my PGA member card for many years. You know once I became a photographer…  Alex: Right, but do you think you could’ve pursued- do you think you could’ve become a professional golfer or?   Dan: Oh yeah, oh yeah. I played, I actually played, I had the quality of play. I just uh- and I had had the merchandising skills to merchandise golf courses. Again, it was kind of a quick decision. I just said “You know what? I’m gonna do this.” Like I said in 1992 I applied for about three or four jobs, and got all the way to the last interview and you know one guy was the one that had it (made?) But that was fine. I still know the people and I’m actually friends with them. But it all worked out.  Alex: That’s great to hear, and yeah you have your golf photography business.   Dan: Right. And I actually sell pictures to some of the guys that, uh, that got some of the jobs so that was kind of neat.   Alex: Oh wow that’s really cool.   Dan: Ehh, yaknow.   Alex: Yeah, no, it was very nice talking to.  Dan: Hey, you too. And good luck with what you do.   Alex: Definitely, and you as well. Best of luck with your golf photography business.   Dan: And Glenmaura’s actually up in Scranton.   Alex: It’s weird, because I’ve never been to it, but I’ve passed it.   Dan: Well did you do that concert like last year they or the year before like a woodstock thing where you all camp out in the yard  Alex: I missed it unfortunately, is that where it was?  Dan: It was right by on Montage Mountain by the ski place there. Glenmaura is just past Montage Mountain drive there.  Alex: Again, I’ve passed by it I’ve just never been to it before. And then I guess the only thing that’s left, is that it’s strange that you were applying to Glenmaura but it ended up in Grossinger’s somehow.   Dan: I’d love to know that mystery myself.   Alex: Like maybe someone just faxed it over and…?  Dan: Well, both jobs I believe were available around the same time so it’s possible I guess, I mean, I don’t have it in front of me, was it addressed to a specific person?  Alex: Yeah, it was addressed to Mr. Manley.   Dan: Yeah, that’s the guy who was on the board at Glenmaura, and then Grossinger’s but it actually had a letter to Grossingers inside of it?   Alex: No no, it’s definitely the letter to Mr. Manley but it was in Grossinger’s.   Dan: Hm, well the only think I can think of is he was a big proponent of mine at Glenmaura, he wanted me to get the job.   Alex: Mhm  Dan: So I wonder, when the committee decided the other fella maybe when Mr. Manley knew I was applying at Grossinger’s, maybe he himself sent it over there just with a recommendation I’m not sure.  Alex: That definitely possible. I’ll send the picture over to you definitely.   Dan: That’d be great. It’s kind of like the Tootsie Roll pop, the world may never know.   Alex: (chuckle) Well it was so great talking to you.  Dan: Oh thank you, and uh sorry I- what was your friend Cesca  Alex: Yeah   Dan: Francesca whatever? I was on the road at the time and I couldn’t really talk. But then I got a chance to talk to you.  Alex: Totally understand  Dan: Please give her my regards  Alex: I will, thank you  Dan: Alright, have a great day man  Alex: You too          